=head0 Preface

SimpleMedia Direct Library is a cross-platform C library that provides access
to several input and output devices. Most popularly it is used for it's access
to the 2D video framebuffer and inputs for games. 

In addition to the core libsdl there are several other libraries that provide many
features such as: Text, Mixers, Images and GFX. 

SDL Perl binds several of these libraries as closely as possible in the SDL::* namespace.
Moreover SDL Perl provides several high level libraries in the SDLx::* namespace.

=head1 Audience

This book is written for new users of SDL Perl who have done some Perl. It is not nesscessary 
for the audience to be aware SDL internals, as this books covers most areas as it goes.

=head1 Format of this book

This book will be formated into chapters that progressively increase in topics and complexities. However 
each chapter can be treated as separate tutorials to jump to and learn.

Each chapter will have a specific task (i.e. Making Pong ), which we will work towards. The source
for each chapter will be broken up and exaplained. Sources and data files will be provided on http://sdl.perl.org.

Finally the chapters will end with a excercise the reader can try out.

=head1 Purpose of this book

This book is intended to introduce Game Development to Perl programmers and at the same time introduce Modern Perl
through game development. The book will aim to provide simple to intermidate examples and provide suggestions for more
advance endeavours. 

=head1 Installing SDL Perl

=head2 CPAN install 

    $ cpan SDL

For most platforms a CPAN install will suffice. Supported and tested platforms are displayed here U<http://pass.cpantesters.org/distro/S/SDL.html>.

=head3 SDL dependencies

=over 3

=item * Windows

Alien::SDL will install binaries for 32bit and 64bit so there is no need to compile anything. 

=item * MacOSX

=over 2

=item * Fink

Fink has packages for SDLperl available. However Pango is not currently supported.

=item * Compiling Dependencies

Alien::SDL will compile SDL deps from scratch with no problems as long some prerequistes are installed. libfreetype6, libX11, libvorbis, and libpng headers will suffice for most examples in this book.

=back 

=item * Linux

=over

=item * Packagers

The packages required are mentioned on our wiki. U<http://sdlperl.ath.cx/projects/SDLPerl/wiki/Testing>

=item * Compiling Dependencies

Compiling will require some Header Packages. U<http://sdlperl.ath.cx/projects/SDLPerl/wiki/videoProblem>.

=back

=back

=head1 Contact

Hopefully this book shows you areas where SDL Perl can be improved, Or you may need help with some issues. Please 
contact us with one of the following methods:

=over

=item Internet

SDL Perl's homepage is at U<http://sdl.perl.org/>.

=item IRC

The channel C<#sdl> on C<irc.perl.net> is very active and a great resource for help and getting involved.

=item Mailing lists

If you need help with SDL Perl, send an email to
C<sdl-devel@perl.org>.

=back

=for editors

=head1 Copy-n-paste doesn't work

Can't safely copy-n-paste examples from the PDF because many don't flow sanely.

Examples use non-ASCII quote chars (ideally fix or else explain in sidebar).

=head1 Examples

Tell readers how to download examples. Perhaps suggest they copy-n-paste from
the pod on github.

=head1 Entering non-ASCII ops

Many users won't know how to enter non-ASCII ops like the double arrows.
Add explanations for PC and Mac keyboards (but beware of variations in national
keyboards, so also give meta help, like using "open -a KeyboardViewer" on OS X
and pressing the meta keys like Alt and Shift to see the characters).

=head1 Glossary

Add a glossary of terms (immutable, desugar etc)

=head1 Acknowledgements

Surely we'll want to thank some people!  :-)

=end for
